Planets Cycles C++ Solution (#763)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/CSES Planets Cycles.mdx

---
id: cses-1751
source: CSES 
title: Planets Cycles
author: Maggie Liu (C++), Qi Wang (Java)
---

> Define the number of teleportations starting from a planet as the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of that planet. For each planet that hasn't been visited, we want to find its $\texttt{pathlength}$. Call the planet we are performing $\texttt{dfs}$ from the $\textit{start}$. As we perform $\texttt{dfs}$ from the $\textit{start}$, keep track of the planets seen, in order, in the $\texttt{path}$ queue and keep track of the $\texttt{steps}$, the length of the path so far. When we reach a planet that has already been visited (call this planet the $\textit{repeat}$), add the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$ to the current $\texttt{step}$ count because we would continue to visit all of the planets that $\textit{repeat}$ would go on to visit. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define the number of teleportations starting from a planet as the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of that planet. For each planet that hasn't been visited, we want to find its $\texttt{pathlength}$. Call the planet we are performing $\texttt{dfs}$ from the $\textit{start}$. As we perform $\texttt{dfs}$ from the $\textit{start}$, keep track of the planets seen, in order, in the $\texttt{path}$ queue and keep track of $\texttt{steps}$, the length of the path (which is also the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the $\textit{start}$). When we reach a planet that has already been visited (call this planet the $\textit{repeat}$), add the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$ to the current $\texttt{step}$ count because we would continue to visit all of the planets that $\textit{repeat}$ would go on to visit. 
```

> Once we have $\texttt{path}$ and $\texttt{steps}$ (the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the $\textit{start}$) we can calculate the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of all the planets in this $\texttt{path}$. We know the $\textit{repeat}$ will always be the planet at the end of the $\texttt{path}$, but it may appear elsewhere as well. We can break this down into two cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have $\texttt{path}$ and $\texttt{steps}$ we can calculate the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of all the planets in this $\texttt{path}$. We know the $\textit{repeat}$ will always be the planet at the end of the $\texttt{path}$, but it may appear elsewhere as well. We can break this down into two cases:
```

> 1. The $\textit{repeat}$ was visited twice in the current $\texttt{path}$. Let the planets in the $\texttt{path}$ between the two occurrences of the $\textit{repeat}$ be the $\textit{cycle}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The $\textit{repeat}$ was visited twice in the current $\texttt{path}$. The planets in the $\texttt{path}$ between the two occurrences of $\textit{repeat}$ form a $\textit{cycle}$.
```

> 2. The $\textit{repeat}$ was visited previously and only appears at the end of the current $\texttt{path}$. All of the planets in the $\texttt{path}$ are not part of a $\textit{cycle}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The $\textit{repeat}$ only appears at the end of the current $\texttt{path}$. All of the planets in the $\texttt{path}$ are not part of a $\textit{cycle}$.
```

> For planets inside a $\textit{cycle}$, the repeating planet when starting from that planet is itself. For all the planets outside the $\textit{cycle}$, the planet that repeats when starting from each planet will still be the $\textit{repeat}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For planets inside a $\textit{cycle}$, the repeating planet when starting from that planet is itself. For all the planets in the $\texttt{path}$ but outside the $\textit{cycle}$, the planet that repeats when starting from each planet will still be the $\textit{repeat}$.
```

> Since the planets outside the $\textit{cycle}$ all have paths ending at the $\textit{repeat}$, each one's $\texttt{pathlength}$ is $1$ less than the previous'. So, as we iterate through the planets outside the $\textit{cycle}$, the $\texttt{pathlength}$ will decrease by $1$ each time, starting from $\texttt{steps}$. Once we get to the $\textit{cycle}$, the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the planets will all be equal to the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$, which is the length of the $\textit{cycle}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the planets outside the $\textit{cycle}$ all have paths ending at the $\textit{repeat}$, each one's $\texttt{pathlength}$ is $1$ less than the previous'. So, as we iterate through the planets along $\texttt{path}$ that are outside the $\textit{cycle}$, the $\texttt{pathlength}$ will decrease by $1$ each time, starting from the $\textit{start}$ with a $\texttt{pathlength}$ of $\texttt{steps}$. Once we get to the $\textit{cycle}$, the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the planets will all be equal to the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$, which is the length of the $\textit{cycle}$.
```

if you think this makes it a bit too clunky you can ignore it

{
	int n;
	cin >> n;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
	{
		cin >> destinations[i];
		destinations[i]--;
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
	{
		if (!visited[i])
		{
			steps = 0;
			dfs(i);
			int decrement = 1;
			//for each planet in current path, calculate pathlength
			while (!path.empty())
			{
				//we are in the cycle; all nodes have same pathlength
				if (path.front() == path.back())
				{
					decrement = 0;
				}
				pathlength[path.front()] = steps;
				steps -= decrement;
				path.pop();
			}
		}
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
	{
		cout << pathlength[i] << " ";
	}
	cout << endl;
	return 0;
}

void dfs(int planet)
{
	//add planet to path
	path.push(planet);
	if (visited[planet])
	{
		//add pathlength of the repeat planet to current step count
		steps += pathlength[planet];
		return;
	}
	visited[planet] = true;
	steps++;
	dfs(destinations[planet]);
}
```

</CPPSection>

<JavaSection>

## Java Implementation

```java

import java.util.*;
import java.io.*;

class Kattio extends PrintWriter {
	private BufferedReader r;
	private StringTokenizer st;

	// standard input
	public Kattio() { this(System.in,System.out); }
	public Kattio(InputStream i, OutputStream o) {
			super(o);

> 		r = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(i));

Reviewer 2: ^ indented weirdly

	}
	// USACO-style file input
	public Kattio(String problemName) throws IOException {
		super(new FileWriter(problemName+".out"));
		r = new BufferedReader(new FileReader(problemName+".in"));
	}

	// returns null if no more input
	public String next() {
		try {
			while (st == null || !st.hasMoreTokens())
				st = new StringTokenizer(r.readLine());
			return st.nextToken();
		} catch (Exception e) {}
		return null;
	}

	public int nextInt() { return Integer.parseInt(next()); }
	public double nextDouble() { return Double.parseDouble(next()); }
	public long nextLong() { return Long.parseLong(next()); }
}

public class planetCycles {
	static int N, steps;
	static int[] destinations, pathlength;
	static boolean[] visited;
	static LinkedList<Integer> path = new LinkedList<>();
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		Kattio io = new Kattio();
		N = io.nextInt();
		destinations = new int[N+1];
		visited = new boolean[N+1];
		pathlength = new int[N+1];
		for (int i = 1; i < N + 1; i++) {
			destinations[i] = io.nextInt();
		}

		for (int i = 1; i < N + 1; i++) {
			if(!visited[i]){

> 					steps = 0;

Reviewer 2: ^ this

				dfs(i);
				int decrement = 1;
				Integer last = path.peekLast();
				while(!path.isEmpty()){

> 						if(path.peekFirst().equals(last)) decrement = 0;

Reviewer 2: also this

2. The $\textit{repeat}$ was visited previously and only appears at the end of the current $\texttt{path}$. All of the planets in the $\texttt{path}$ are not part of a $\textit{cycle}$.

For planets inside a $\textit{cycle}$, the repeating planet when starting from that planet is itself. For all the planets outside the $\textit{cycle}$, the planet that repeats when starting from each planet will still be the $\textit{repeat}$.

Since the planets outside the $\textit{cycle}$ all have paths ending at the $\textit{repeat}$, each one's $\texttt{pathlength}$ is $1$ less than the previous'. So, as we iterate through the planets outside the $\textit{cycle}$, the $\texttt{pathlength}$ will decrease by $1$ each time, starting from $\texttt{steps}$. Once we get to the $\textit{cycle}$, the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the planets will all be equal to the $\texttt{pathlength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$, which is the length of the $\textit{cycle}$.

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## C++ Implementation

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <queue>
using namespace std;

> void dfs(int planet);

Reviewer 3: any reason for this???

Reviewer 2: https://www.learncpp.com/cpp-tutorial/forward-declarations/

Reviewer 3: ah thx

> bool visited[200000] = {false};

Reviewer 2: `int pathlength[200000] = {0};`

global arrays are already initialized to zero. Also, this may give the impression that this sets the entire array to `0`. The following would set the first element to 1 and the remaining elements to zero:

`int pathlength[200000] = {1};`

Would prefer

`int pathlength[200000]{};`

as mentioned here: https://www.learncpp.com/cpp-tutorial/arrays-part-ii/

		return;
	}
	visited[planet] = true;
	steps++;
	dfs(destinations[planet]);
}
```

</CPPSection>

<JavaSection>

## Java Implementation

```java

import java.util.*;
import java.io.*;

public class planetCycles {
    static int N, steps;
    static int[] destinations, pathlength;
    static boolean[] visited;
    static LinkedList<Integer> path = new LinkedList<>();
    public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
        Kattio in = new Kattio(System.in);

        N = in.getInt();
        destinations = new int[N+1];
        visited = new boolean[N+1];
        pathlength = new int[N+1];
        for (int i = 1; i < N + 1; i++) {
            destinations[i] = in.getInt();
        }

        for (int i = 1; i < N + 1; i++) {
            if(!visited[i]){
                steps = 0;
                dfs(i);
                int decrement = 1;
                Integer last = path.peekLast();
                while(!path.isEmpty()){
                    if(path.peekFirst().equals(last)) decrement = 0;
                    pathlength[path.poll()] = steps;
                    steps-=decrement;
                }
            }
        }

        for (int i = 1; i < N + 1; i++) {

>             System.out.print(pathlength[i] + " ");

Reviewer 2: you can do `in.print(...)` (better to rename `in` as `io`)

        }
    }

    public static void dfs(int n){
        visited[n] = true;
        path.add(n);
        steps++;
        if(!visited[destinations[n]])
            dfs(destinations[n]);
        else

>             path.add(destinations[n]); steps += pathlength[destinations[n]];

Reviewer 2: this indentation is odd. also, tabs?

    }

>     static class Kattio extends PrintWriter {

Reviewer 2: would prefer the current version of `Kattio` (https://usaco.guide/general/io?lang=java#java). any particular reason why this is contained within the public class (as opposed to preceding it?)

---
id: cses-1751
source: CSES 
title: Planets Cycles
author: Maggie Liu
---

> Define the number of teleportations starting from a planet as the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of that planet. For each planet that hasn't been visited, we want to find its $\texttt{cyclelength}$. Call the planet we are performing $\texttt{dfs}$ from the $\textit{start}$. As we perform $\texttt{dfs}$ from the $\textit{start}$, keep track of the planets seen, in order, in the $\texttt{cycle}$ queue. When we reach a planet that has already been visited (call this planet the $\textit{repeat}$), we add the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$ to the current $\texttt{step}$ count. 

Reviewer: No mention of variable "step" when visiting new nodes. Maybe add smth along the lines of "... keep track of $\texttt{step}$, the length of the path so far... "

then add "... count because we would continue to visit all of the nodes that $\textit{repeat}$ would go on to visit." to the end

Reviewer: Oh you define step below. I still think it would help to mention it in paragraph 1 tho

> Define the number of teleportations starting from a planet as the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of that planet. For each planet that hasn't been visited, we want to find its $\texttt{cyclelength}$. Call the planet we are performing $\texttt{dfs}$ from the $\textit{start}$. As we perform $\texttt{dfs}$ from the $\textit{start}$, keep track of the planets seen, in order, in the $\texttt{cycle}$ queue. When we reach a planet that has already been visited (call this planet the $\textit{repeat}$), we add the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$ to the current $\texttt{step}$ count. 

Reviewer 3: I feel like this explanation is way too long, but i have no idea how to cut it down 😭. @frodakcin help...

Reviewer: Long explanation is OK as long as it's not cluttered/messy.

> Once we have $\texttt{cycle}$ and $\texttt{steps}$ (the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of the $\textit{start}$) we can calculate the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of all the planets in this $\texttt{cycle}$. We know the $\textit{repeat}$ will always be the planet at the end of the $\texttt{cycle}$, but there are two cases for the $\textit{repeat}$. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have $\texttt{cycle}$ and $\texttt{steps}$ (the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of the $\textit{start}$) we can calculate the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of all the planets in this $\texttt{cycle}$. We know the $\textit{repeat}$ will always be the planet at the end of the $\texttt{cycle}$, but it may appear elsewhere as well. We can break this down into two cases:
```

1. The $\textit{repeat}$ was visited twice in the current $\texttt{cycle}$.
2. The $\textit{repeat}$ was visited previously and only appears at the end of the current $\texttt{cycle}$.

> For the first case, let the planets in the $\texttt{cycle}$ between the two occurrences of the $\textit{repeat}$ be the $\textit{loop}$. For the planets inside the $\textit{loop}$, the repeating planet when starting from that planet is itself. Thus, the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of any planet inside the $\textit{loop}$ will be the same as the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$. For all the planets outside the $\textit{loop}$, the planet that repeats when starting from each planet will still be the $\textit{repeat}$.

Reviewer: cycle having equal len can be explained separately below. Here, just mention that the nodes between two instances of repeat form a cycle. In fact, this is so short it can probably be put into the ordered list.

> For the second case, all the planets are outside the $\textit{loop}$. The repeating planet when starting from any of the planets in the $\texttt{cycle}$ will be the $\textit{repeat}$.

Reviewer: Same as above. Possibly summarize and put into ordered list. Just say like "All nodes in the path are not part of a cycle"

> As we iterate through the planets outside the $\textit{loop}$, the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ will decrease by $1$ each time, starting from $\texttt{steps}$. For planets inside the $\textit{loop}$, the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ will be the same as the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$.

Reviewer: I think some wording changes would help:

"Cycle" -> "Path"
"Loop" -> "Cycle" ("Loop" or "self-loop" typically refers to an edge that connects a node to itself)
"Cyclelength" -> ?? (maybe "distance," "ans"/"answer," "length"/"pathlen"/"pathlength," or "value")

"Repeat" is passable... though perhaps something like "end" or "last" would make more sense? up to you.

> As we iterate through the planets outside the $\textit{loop}$, the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ will decrease by $1$ each time, starting from $\texttt{steps}$. For planets inside the $\textit{loop}$, the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ will be the same as the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$.

Reviewer: Mention something along the lines of "all planets in the cycle will have the same {??}: the length of the cycle. All nodes that are not part of a cycle will have distance {go on to explain... visit their destination & all nodes destination visits ... smth like that}..."

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
using namespace std;

> vector<bool> visited;

Reviewer 4: LOL, issok. Boolean vector is lowkey same as boolearn array lol.

> vector<bool> visited;

Reviewer: Actually vector<bool> is implemented very poorly in cpp to the point that if I feel uncomfortable (like using iterators/bitwise operators on booleans or smth) I'd rather use vector<int> and store 1's and 0's. Specifically I think vector<bool> directs to bitset<>

Bool array is strictly better.

> vector<bool> visited;

Reviewer 2: >  vector is implemented very poorly in cpp

???

> vector<bool> visited;

Reviewer: oops i meant only vector<bool>

> vector<bool> visited;

Reviewer: wait wtf

> vector<bool> visited;

Reviewer: oh if i type `<bool>` it disappears

> vector<bool> visited;

Reviewer: i meant only `vector<bool>`

vector<int> destinations;

> vector<int> cycle;

Reviewer 3: Use a queue here instead??? (also have to fix code below)

Reviewer 3: ^ stack works as well

Reviewer: Why queue?

Reviewer: Actually it's fine. The idea's there anyways

> vector<int> cyclelength;

Reviewer 3: use array here as well.

queue<int> cycle;
int steps = 0;

int main() 
{
	int n;
	cin >> n;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
	{
		cin >> destinations[i];
		destinations[i]--;
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
	{
		if (!visited[i])
		{
			steps = 0;
			dfs(i);
			int decrement = 1;
			//for each planet in current cycle, calculate cyclelength
			while (!cycle.empty())
			{

> 				//loop started, don't need to decrement anymore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				//We are in the cycle; all nodes have the same (word of choice from above)
```

				if (cycle.front() == cycle.back())
				{
					decrement = 0;
				}
				cyclelength[cycle.front()] = steps;
				steps -= decrement;
				cycle.pop();
			}
		}
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
	{
		cout << cyclelength[i] << " ";
	}
	cout << endl;
	return 0;
}

void dfs(int planet)
{
	//add planet to cycle
	cycle.push(planet);
	if (visited[planet])
	{
		//add steps from the planet to current step count
		steps += cyclelength[planet];
		return;
	}
	visited[planet] = true;
	steps++;
	dfs(destinations[planet]);

> }

Reviewer: Change variable names to match above comment.

For the first case, let the planets in the $\texttt{cycle}$ between the two occurrences of the $\textit{repeat}$ be the $\textit{loop}$. For the planets inside the $\textit{loop}$, the repeating planet when starting from that planet is itself. Thus, the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of any planet inside the $\textit{loop}$ will be the same as the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$. For all the planets outside the $\textit{loop}$, the planet that repeats when starting from each planet will still be the $\textit{repeat}$.

For the second case, all the planets are outside the $\textit{loop}$. The repeating planet when starting from any of the planets in the $\texttt{cycle}$ will be the $\textit{repeat}$.

As we iterate through the planets outside the $\textit{loop}$, the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ will decrease by $1$ each time, starting from $\texttt{steps}$. For planets inside the $\textit{loop}$, the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ will be the same as the $\texttt{cyclelength}$ of the $\textit{repeat}$.

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
using namespace std;

> void dfs(int planet);

Reviewer 4: Rather than defining the DFS function after the main function, why don't you define it before?

Author: I prefer having the main function first but i can move the dfs function.
> Also, could you make your explanation more concise? The explanation you put seems too long.

Do you have any suggestions on what I could remove? It is long but I'm not sure what to cut.

Reviewer 4: > I prefer having the main function first but i can move the dfs function.
> Yeah, this would be better. Most people don't follow the same coding pattern as you.
> > Also, could you make your explanation more concise? The explanation you put seems too long.
> Do you have any suggestions on what I could remove? It is long but I'm not sure what to cut.
> Not specifically, no. Could anyone else help with this? @andrewwangva @frodakcin @HarryWangATX

Reviewer 3: doesn't really matter where it is.
